Radio design notes
6/16/2026  DLilly



------------------------------------ ext_Radio_00
HL2 Coherence Int.:   35ms 
SSB Bandwidth:  3kHz
Symbol Rate:    50  Symb. pre sec.  ( text only)
bit Rate:       25 bps
Symbol Time:    18ms  (good long time)
Noise BW:       50Hz
Modulation:     DBSK  (Differential Binary Phase Shift Keying)
                      {no costas loop needed}
Sync. Method:   20 symbol preamble at start of each burst
Fwd Err Corr.   Rate 1/2 Repitition
Burst Err. Correction:     No
Pedistol Frequency: 2Khz ( or whatever  seems optimal)


Notes:
1) The radio has a call mode, and a detect mode.  a call is initiated by a radio in the call mode.
   Once a call mode is initiated the frequency is not changed, and the caller sends either a text message or a active-signal burst every 5 seconds.
   if there is data in the buffer a text is sent, if not a active signal burst with no text is sent.
2) in the detect mode the radio will be able to move frequency to try and get best connection, and look for every 5th second bursts.
   when a burst is deected, the radio user has an indication of connection, and if text is in the payload it is displayed.  A response message begins being sent 
   starting 2.5 seconds after start of recieved message.  if text is in the buffer, it is sent, otherwise an active-signal burst is sent with no text payload.
3) The users python gui tool has several pull down menus from the top of the window, such as 'File', 'Config'.  iniitally these have no functions.  
   the major part of the gui window is a spectrum window at the top, and a text box below, that shows the outgoing, and incoming messages.  for active-signal bursts a period is printed to the screen, 
   at the endo of any previos text characters,  A new line is added for any in/out messages with text.  outgoing active-signal bursts are marked with a '/' 
   and incoming active-signals detected are marked with a '.'
4) the sync symbols will be  any apropriate 20 symbol sequence for best detection.  the 21  to 24th symbol will be the burst code
5) burst codes are; 0 - call mode continue,  1 - call mode end-call, 2)detect mode continue, 4) detect mode end-call
6) symbols 25 to 32 are a 8 bit number describing the length of the message in ascii char.  Each ascii is 8 bits, max message  is 100-32 = 68 max chars
   if the burst length is 0, it is a active-signal burst with no data.
7) there will be 2 buttons at the top left of the gui; labeled as 'call', Detect'.   these activate the radio modes of call/detect.  
   when an end call is recieved in either mode the connection is dropped, the mode is ended.  when in a call/detect mode it is indicated by red letters to the right of the 2 buttons.
8) when in a call/or detect mode, and a messaage has been found, then at the expected time a burst will be detected the gui will print a '.' for new burst found, or '#' for 
   missed message.  after 3 missed messages, an '<end connection>' is printed and the call/detect mode is ended.  also if an end-message code is found in the burst the mode is ended.
   when sending an 'end-message' burst, 2 are alwas sent in case the 1st was missed.
9) the spectrum will show the RF power  seen during th 2 second window will the sstem is gathering data.  the system should operate at a sample rate of about 10khz, so the user can seen
   a bit of the spectrum above  & below the band they are using to communicate in, which we said is 3 khz.
   
10) Use te radio design in the Reference folder, for the detailes about how to control and interface with the Hermes radio.
11) the user interface will also need to show when the radio is in transmit mode, or not with a red box or somthing.
12) the gui will also need to have a LNA Gain text box, like the example interface, and an output power slider, like the example radio.
13) the gui will someplace  show the PEP power, like the example radio design provided.
14) I am using; Python 3.13.0


